i have a little bit of sunlight left so
it's perfect for a quick little
stretching routine before the sun goes
down so
let's get to it since i'm a weirdo i'm
going to stretch on top of this picnic
table but
just so you know in order to get
flexible legs you're going to want to
stretch
the whole cylinder of the leg not just
the hamstrings and the quads
so what you're going to do is stretch
the hip flexor the quads
the it band area the glutes the
hamstrings and the inner thighs
so the whole cylinder so let's get to
work starting with these hip flexors
so you're gonna start in a runner's
lunge just like this
your front knee is above the ankle and
your back leg is all the way straight
and you're on your toes just like this
breathing deeply sinking these hips down
toward the floor to really feel that
stretch
now sink the knee down and point the toe
back behind you and hold right here
breathing deeply so the goal is to
stretch
each muscle group for at least 30
seconds
and you want to stay warm so you're
gonna have to keep switching up the pose
so
lift it up a little bit deeper right
here this is optional you don't have to
go this deep
and one last option you can also reach
yourself
back and we're going to switch it over
to the other side
so that was around 45 seconds
for that whole stretch but we're now
back to this part right here
the back leg is straight knee is above
the ankle
breathing so what i did is around
10 seconds per each one of these poses
that i did and it
roughly goes about to maybe a little
over 45 seconds drop
down that knee and point the toe out
behind you breathe in
so
i forgot what i was going to say i just
enjoy hip flexor stretches go ahead and
lift yourself up
into your lunge just like this this is
optional you can stay down if this is
too difficult for you
and if your knees hurt by being on the
ground or wherever you're at you can do
it on the bed you can put a towel under
it whatever feels best for you
reach up behind if you like and lower
yourself down
so that's the front of the leg now let's
do the inner leg the inner thigh
so move to butterfly stretch but you're
gonna pull it all the way in as close to
you as you can get it
there's a cat that went by and then
stretch forward
breathing deeply you can either reach
forward or you can grab your legs
but either way your goal is to get your
knees to softly open to the side and
your legs as close
in as you can get them breathing deeply
just sinking forward
how was your day today i hope it was
good
if it wasn't good i hope it's gonna get
better after this
i always feel better after stretching my
legs you can also add these little
shimmies and shakes if you like
makes the stretch a little more dynamic
just make sure you're not bouncing in
the pain we want to avoid
pain when we stretch and lift yourself
up great job
now you're going to cross one ankle over
the other leg
roll yourself down and you're going to
grab the hamstring of that leg right
here
so to show you a little bit of a
different angle keep holding that
stretch though
it looks like this it's called your
figure four stretch
super super valuable you should be
feeling it along the glute area maybe a
little bit towards the bottom of your
leg as well
this is super super healthy for the back
and switch sides
breathing deeply and also make sure your
pelvis isn't lifting into the air like
this
you want to keep it all the way down
breathing deeply
this stretch helps with low back pain it
helps with sciatica
um so if you sit down a lot um make sure
you do the stretch
you can also do it while sitting down if
i'm in a chair right now
like i could just pull my leg up and
stretch like that so go ahead and do
that
and lift yourself up great
now we've done our hip flexors we've
done our inner thighs
and we've done a little bit of that back
leg so let's do our hamstrings
straighten your legs all the way out
bring them all the way together
and reach toward your toes but if you
can't reach
the knees the shins the ankles wherever
grab wherever you can and if it's too
difficult you can also wrap a blanket
around your feet and hold the blanket
and that helps out a lot
but either way breathing deeply
start to add a little bit of a shimmy a
bend and stretch
great now stay in the stretch but open
your legs
a little bit wider than shoulder width
so shoulder width is probably about
there
a little bit wider than shoulder blades
start to shimmy those legs
[Music]
this stretch feels really really good
for me
and lift yourself up great job
you should feel a lot better already but
make sure that when you
stretch if you are going to stretch for
a period of time
do more than just your legs but i'll be
posting an upper body stretching routine
soon
hope to see you then